 

# Libetal
16-08-2020
─
> Breimer Radido John
> Cohort 2
> Africa
> Nairobi, Kenya

## Overview
There are over 100million projects on git hub. Most of these are projects that are not generating actual income and rely on donations and goodwill to keep developing and improving. This is great but it is usually not enough. Projects are being discarded some stashed due to lack of contribution due to the less support and such. 
Now the project is to provide a platform for project contribution, project funding, project management, project outreach like a play store of sorts. This is to move the concept of developing as a hobby or making millions of contributions on GitHub, just to secure employment. Or add something to your CV but even more provide you a chance to get a product from a simple project idea into a multi developed project generating income on a reasonable scale. 

### Purpose
This solution is to merge the best of two worlds. The open source culture and corporate culture. 
By providing a price per head on a complete final product. 

### Problem Statement
- Not very good returns from open source contributions  

###Goals
- Provide a platform for project collaboration.
- Provide a platform for project management.
- Provide income evaluation depending on contributions one has made on a specified project. 
- Provide a platform for selling the developed solutions i.e, an app store.
- Provide a platform for code pricing.

## Features 
1. ### Library sharing with price specifications. 
Any given library in the platform provided it’s priced at $x, can be shared in another 
project on a sales capacity, 
that can either be agreed upon or autogenerated depending on defined rules, to be discussed. 
Using it in such a way will result in a markup of the target library.
2. ### Licensing provisions. 
The platform should provide proper protection of intellectual property. 
Auto Build.
The platform will natively be created for the development of apps (not explicitly, 
expected to scope other sectors).  With auto-build mechanisms and watchers, 
apps can be up to date on the platform’s app store with ease. 
Providing a single code and release feel of the app. 
3. ### Project Management features.
The platform should be able to provide a fully-featured project management 
model(future implementation not necessary for project conception). 
This will enable proper project life cycles, iterations and debug 
handling depending on the product.
4. Direct app debug and feature requests. 
Given the product is to be hosted by the platform on competition, 
it will provide for easy of user responses once a given product is released. 

## Contributions
A contribution can be at any capacity but has to be merged and to the release brunch before one can start getting project benefits. 
Types of contributions
Since this is almost like a formation of small companies, in a repo based manner, contributions are based on to what capacity the merged content is to the project. i.e if one adds documentation that should have different earning rates compared to one who added code for the project. 

### Contribution Capacity
- #### Man Hours
> What effort was done to support the project? 
This will be the time taken to improve/add something in the main source code.

- #### Financial capacity
> Contribution to financing the project.
In a situation, the developer needs financial support and not man-hours to 
complete a project then there should be a financial support capacity that anyone can provide. 
The financial support and returns that the finance provided has offered describes how much the person’s returns will be.

- #### Advisory capacity.
> The platform should be able to handle at least 80% of what is involved in development. 
From product advertisement, product placement, product management, product deployment testing, and creation. 
With all this in mind, the platform should offer advisory capacity as it will provide for a more mature platform. 



## Sample Repo
Demo with Dukto Repo GitHub.
This is a simple app used to share files across all platforms and it is developed with QT
- Project Components
    - Cross-Platform
    - File Transfer 
	    - Static IP
	    - IP Search
	- Notifications
    - Recent transfers feature.
##### On the platform 
By default, the software proposer on initialization will own 100% of the total destruction shared. 
And a fixed 20-30% or X%(TBD) share i.e and leaving 70-80% share to contributions.
20-30% is just with respect to owning the base Ideology and secure the person’s Intellectual Property. 
    - Cross-Platform contribution was done by X and will now own, x of  70%
    - File Transfer
        - Static IP done By the creator and will own y of 70%. Making hers/his portion to y + 30%
        - Network IP Search done by A, who now owns a of 70%. 
    - Recent Transfers Added By the owner now owns (y + 30 + r)%
    - UI Design done by the creator on project initialization now owning (y + 30 + r + u)%
    - Lawyer contribution drew up Licensing owns l of 70%


Whatever is left after this distribution is left to the repo owner. 
From this with monthly income from the total sales of the product. 
Finances have to be divided and distributed to the said participants.


## Milestones
- #### Contribution Analise
>Analyzing how contributions will be earned is quite tricky. What metrics will be used
 performance/language used/ code complexity etc?
Project Management and development
Projects need more fine-tuning on how to be managed.
There are developers and those who will be contributing at a project management level. Project managers will not earn at a capacity of code contribution at a platform time logic i.e. how much time the project manager was online and what changes did he/she make that were widely accepted by the member contributors. 
Payment platforms.
A way to manage the distribution of funds should be paramount as there is a lot at stake. Consider a scenario you have a whole OS developed from the platform, i.e. Linux, all those contributions need accounting for and distribution of funds to all those developers fluidly.
Deprecation
Contributions can change with time, and how the and contribution one committed might be rendered obsolete with changes in technology. Thus a way to ensure that your contribution in consideration to IP guidelines or code capacity still earns you money has to be developed. Let’s say a project has tree looks like
Project Owner 100% - (helping capacity of developer)
>> Developer 1 (Added feature x now gets x of 100%) but owns 100% of x contribution  
>> Developer 3 did a bugfix on feature x now gets y of x and Developer 1 gets (x-y)  
>> Developer 2 (Added p now gets p of 100%)

With time your contribution to the project will be depreciating value, 
but the project will scale at a fast rate. Given developers have something to look forward to 
from every contribution made earning from their hobbies or even being able to sustain 
themselves without the need for employment.

- #### Contribution Pricing. [Contributions](modules/repos/contributions/README.md)
Pricing contributions might be quite difficult. To evaluate depending on the contribution provider. 
i.e designs contributions might be different compared to code contributions. 
Drawing up Licenses as a contribution would require practicing lawyers to contribute 
at a professional capacity and this is different from design contributions. 

- #### Feature Price
Let’s say someone suggested a new feature of how much will the feature be worth.

- #### Benefits
The platform will tackle the issue of unemployment for all parties involved in a development pipeline. 
Tap into the 100million repos that are already on Github and not earning enough to sustain the projects. 
Benefit from the open source culture but provide a corporate code utilization and avoid having to
have to upload code on GitHub once you use someone else’s library. 
If VLC was built with this logic, then one needs to use the code at a closed source capacity. 
Since all contributions are evaluated and monetized, 
a source code price can easily be calculated, and the company can utilize 
the source code depending on the capacity they want to use it. 
Startups will no longer require to have funding from great sources looking for developers 
and advertisements as this can all be done from the platform. 